Document partial code examples (#348)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/write/style-guide/write-for-developers/index.md

Readers of documentation typically skim through it to find code samples they can copy and paste and run as is.
Because of this and whenever possible, provide production-ready examples.

However, it isn't necessary for every code example to be runnable in production.
Some code examples are written to illustrate a point so that the developer can learn how to do something similar on their own.
Such examples should be clearly marked as partial.

When providing an example, give a written description. You can put it either in the body of the document or as explanatory comments within the example code.

Remember the basic rule: explain _why_ your code does what it does, rather than describe _what_ it does.
For an in-depth, external resource about writing developer documentation, see [_Docs for Developers_](https://docsfordevelopers.com/).

### Format code examples

To format code examples, use the following guidelines.

#### Configure syntax highlighting

> In Markdown, an info string after the first three backticks is used to describe the language contained within.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Markdown, use an info string after the first three backticks to describe the programming or markup language of the example.
```

> The website uses this information for syntax highlighting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The website uses this information to apply syntax highlighting to code examples.
```

> To configure syntax highlighting for a JSON code example, refer to the following Markdown example:

Reviewer: This isn't really an example of how to **configure** anything, because in practice you don't need to wrap your code examples in markdown for them to work.  I wrote a couple of different revisions for this line, still not happy with this one...

```suggestion
The following is an example of how syntax highlighting is applied to a JSON code example:
```

````markdown
```json
{ "key": "value" }
```
````

Some common languages and their info strings are:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Bash: 'bash`
```

- Go: `go`
- JSON: `json`
- PromQL: `promql`
- River: `river`
- Shell: `shell`
- YAML: `yaml`

#### Use appropriate whitespace for indentation

Spaces (` `) are a good default but note that some languages use alternative indentation.
For example, Makefiles and Go source code uses tabs (`	`) for indentation.

Use 2 spaces unless there is a clearly established alternative convention.
For example, Python generally uses 4 spaces for indentation.

Above all else, be consistent with other Grafana documentation.

#### Introduce each code sample with a sentence or paragraph to establish its context

End the introduction with a colon (`:`) if it immediately precedes the sample, or a period (`.`) if it doesn't.

#### Use the `code` shortcode for tabbed examples

If you have the same example in multiple languages, use the [`code` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#code).

> The website presents the snippets in tabs and remembers the users preferred choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The website presents the snippets in tabs and remembers the user's preferred choice.
```

Instead use the preceding sentences or valid code comments to clearly explain the scope of the example and what is omitted.

For example:

> The following YAML example demonstrates the configuration of a single port numbered `80` using the `TCP` protocol.
>
> It is part of a Kubernetes Service specification.
> It is not a complete Service specification and must be incorporated with the rest of a Service specification.
>
> ```yaml
> ports:
>   - port: 80
>     protocol: TCP
> ```

#### Explain how to integrate the example

With YAML examples especially, it is important to explain how to integrate the example within a wide configuration.

Explain which key the example is the value for.
The following example extends the one in the previous section:

> The following YAML example demonstrates the configuration of a single port numbered `80` using the `TCP` protocol.
>
> It is part of a Kubernetes Service specification.
> It is not a complete Service specification and must be incorporated with the rest of a Service specification.
>
> To incorporate the example, you must include it as the value to the Service `spec` mapping.

> > If there is an existing `ports` value, you must choose to replace it or merge the two.

Reviewer: Question, do we want to mention providing the dot notation (not sure if that's what it's officially called) with the path to where the snippet should live in the file, for example "The following sample would be inserted into your Kubernetes Service file under `spec.ports`."

Author: I think we should for sure. I meant to add a comment to myself to that effect and clearly forgot :) 

I think it might require its own paragraph to explain the rules for the dot syntax.

Reviewer: Yeah, it might need a paragraph of explanation at that.

>It turns out it's super hard!
Truth!

Readers of documentation typically skim through it to find code samples they can copy and paste and run as is.
Because of this and whenever possible, provide production-ready examples.

However, it isn't necessary for every code example to be runnable in production.
Some code examples are written to illustrate a point so that the developer can learn how to do something similar on their own.
Such examples should be clearly marked as partial.

When providing an example, give a written description. You can put it either in the body of the document or as explanatory comments within the example code.

Remember the basic rule: explain _why_ your code does what it does, rather than describe _what_ it does.
For an in-depth, external resource about writing developer documentation, see [_Docs for Developers_](https://docsfordevelopers.com/).

> ### Format code examples

Reviewer 2: I think starting these two formatting headings with the verb (especially since they aren't tasks) hides what we're trying to really get across here, which is one of these sections is about full code samples and one is about partial code samples. I've made the associated suggestion on line 137.
```suggestion
### Full code examples
```

To format code examples, use the following guidelines.

#### Highlight syntax

In Markdown, an info string after the first three backticks describes the language contained within.
The website uses this information to apply syntax highlighting to code examples.

The following Markdown sets the info string to `json`:

````markdown
```json
{ "key": "value" }
```
````

Some common languages and their info strings are:

- Bash: `bash`
- Console: `console`
- Go: `go`
- JSON: `json`
- PromQL: `promql`
- River: `river`
- Shell: `shell`
- YAML: `yaml`

#### Use appropriate whitespace for indentation

Spaces (` `) are a good default but note that some languages use alternative indentation.
For example, Makefiles and Go source code uses tabs (`	`) for indentation.

Use 2 spaces unless there is a clearly established alternative convention.
For example, Python generally uses 4 spaces for indentation.

> Above all else, be consistent with other Grafana documentation.

Reviewer 2: What exactly do we mean here? Like if you're adding something, just make sure it's consistent with the other code samples around it? My confusion comes from the phrase "other Grafana documentation" because I interpret that as ALL other Grafana documentation.

Reviewer 3: I see Isabel's point. Is what we are trying to say "Above all else, be consistent with other Grafana documentation for code in the same language."?

Author: Perhaps it is more confusing that it is valuable. I'm not sure exactly what I meant now that I have come back to this PR after some time.

I think it's kind of a hand-wavy "If your project is doing four tabs of indentation (WILD!) for all other code samples in this language, follow that style" but also "If Grafana engineering has a practice of doing X, then also do X."

Since this is the style guide, perhaps we should be more insistent that you do Y and if you are doing X, you must switch to doing Y.

Reviewer 2: I think I'd say be consistent with existing documentation _in that area_ of the docs or in your project. I think we just want to be specific about what we're saying to be consistent with.

Author: ```suggestion
Above all else, be consistent with existing documentation in your area of the documentation or in your project.
```

#### Introduce each code sample with a sentence or paragraph to establish its context

End the introduction with a colon (`:`) if it immediately precedes the sample, or a period (`.`) if it doesn't.

#### Use the `code` shortcode for tabbed examples

If you have the same example in multiple languages, use the [`code` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#code).
The website presents the snippets in tabs and remembers the user's preferred choice.

> ### Format partial code examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Partial code examples
```

Explain which key the example is the value for.
The following example extends the one in the previous section:

> The following YAML example demonstrates the configuration of a single port numbered `80` using the `TCP` protocol.
>
> It's part of a Kubernetes Service specification.
> It's not a complete Service specification and your must incorporate it with the rest of a Service specification.
>
> To incorporate the example, you must include it as the value to the Service `spec` mapping.
> If there is an existing `ports` value, you must choose to replace it or merge the two.
>
> ```yaml
> ports:
>   - port: 80
>     protocol: TCP
> ```

#### Refer to nested fields

With configuration in JSON or YAML, you may need to refer to deeply nested fields.
Using natural language is laborious to write and read.

Instead use _dot notation_ to separate nested fields.
For example, `spec.template.metadata` to refer to the `metadata` field within the `template` field, which is itself within the `spec` field.

If the field name has dots, surround the name with square brackets instead.

> For example, `spec.selector[app.kubernetes.io/name]`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, `spec.selector[app.kubernetes.io/name]`.
```
